# 1. PRIMM Worksheet: Basic Selects

## Predict

1. What do you think the following SQL statements will do? Write your predictions.

   ```SQL
   SELECT artist_name 
   FROM Artists;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT * 
   FROM Albums;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT * 
   FROM Tracks 
   WHERE duration_ms > 200000;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT album_name 
   FROM Albums 
   WHERE release_year > 2018;
   ```

## Run

2. Execute the SQL statements in your SQL environment and observe the results.

## Investigate

3. Analyse the output of each SQL statement:
   - How does `SELECT artist_name FROM Artists;` differ from `SELECT * FROM Artists;`?
   - What information is displayed when you use `SELECT * FROM Albums;`?
   - For the statement `SELECT * FROM Tracks WHERE duration_ms > 200000;`, what is the significance of `WHERE` clause?
   - How does adding a `WHERE` clause in `SELECT album_name FROM Albums WHERE release_year > 2018;` change the results compared to not having the `WHERE` clause?

## Modify

4. Modify the SQL statements and try different queries:
   - Try selecting different columns from the `Artists` table.
   - Use the `WHERE` clause to filter `Albums` by different years.
   - Experiment with different conditions in the `WHERE` clause for the `Tracks` table.

## Make

5. Create your own SQL queries using the learned concepts:
   - Write a query to select all track names from the `Tracks` table.
   - Write a query to display all albums released before the year 2010.
   - Write a query to select artist names from the `Artists` table where the `artist_id` is less than 10.

## Save your work
After finishing this worksheet, rename your `main.sql` file to `basic selects.sql` to save your work to refer to at a later date

Now create a new file called `main.sql` and move onto worksheet 2!