# 2. PRIMM Worksheet: Deleting, Inserting, and Updating Data

## Predict

1. What do you think the following SQL statements will do? Write your predictions.

   ```SQL
   DELETE FROM Tracks 
   WHERE track_id = 5;
   ```

   ```SQL
   DELETE FROM Artists 
   WHERE artist_id BETWEEN 20 AND 25;
   ```

   ```SQL
   INSERT INTO Genres (genre_id, genre_name) 
   VALUES (21, 'Jazz');
   ```

   ```SQL
   INSERT INTO Tracks (track_id, track_name, artist_id, album_id, genre_id, duration_ms) 
   VALUES (54, 'New Track', 4, 4, 1, 180000), 
          (55, 'Another Track', 5, 5, 2, 200000);
   ```

   ```SQL
   UPDATE Albums 
   SET release_year = 2021 
   WHERE album_id = 3;
   ```

   ```SQL
   UPDATE Artists 
   SET artist_name = 'New Artist Name' 
   WHERE artist_id IN (1, 2, 3);
   ```

## Run

2. Execute the SQL statements in your SQL environment and observe the results.

## Investigate

3. Analyse the output and changes in the database:
   - What happens to the `Tracks` table after executing the DELETE statement with a specific `track_id`?
   - How does the range in the DELETE statement for `Artists` affect the data?
   - Observe the changes in the `Genres` table after inserting a new genre. 
   - What happens when you insert multiple records into `Tracks`?
   - Discuss the effect of the UPDATE statement on the `Albums` table.
   - How does updating multiple records in the `Artists` table work?

## Modify

4. Modify the SQL statements and try different operations:
   - Try deleting records from `Albums` using different conditions.
   - Insert a new artist into the `Artists` table.
   - Update the duration of a track in the `Tracks` table.

## Make

5. Create your own SQL queries using the learned concepts:
   - Write a query to delete tracks that are shorter than 2 minutes.
   - Insert a new album with your choice of `album_id`, `album_name`, and `release_year`.
   - Update the genre of a track in the `Tracks` table to a new genre.

## Save your work
After finishing this worksheet, rename your `main.sql` file to `delete insert update.sql` to save your work to refer to at a later date

Now create a new file called `main.sql` and move onto worksheet 3!