# PRIMM Worksheet: Advanced Selects

## Predict

1. What do you think the following SQL statements will do? Write your predictions.

   ```SQL
   SELECT artist_name 
   FROM Artists 
   WHERE artist_name LIKE 'T%';
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT album_name, release_year 
   FROM Albums 
   WHERE release_year >= 2015 
   ORDER BY release_year DESC;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT a.album_name AS Album, a.release_year Year 
   FROM Albums a 
   WHERE a.release_year > 2010 
   ORDER BY a.release_year;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT artist_name, LENGTH(artist_name) AS Name_Length 
   FROM Artists 
   WHERE artist_name LIKE '_a%';
   ```

## Run

2. Execute the SQL statements in your SQL environment and observe the results.

## Investigate

3. Analyse the output of each SQL statement:
   - How does the use of wildcards (`%`) in `LIKE 'T%'` affect the results for `Artists`?
   - What is the significance of `ORDER BY` in the selection from `Albums`?
   - Discuss the use of aliases (`AS Album`, `Year`) in the query and how they change the output.
   - Examine how the calculated value (`LENGTH(artist_name)`) provides additional information in the results.

## Modify

4. Modify the SQL statements and try different queries:
   - Use a different wildcard pattern ( % or _ ) in the `LIKE` clause.
   - Change the `ORDER BY` clause to sort by a different field or in ascending order.
   - Experiment with different aliases and calculated values in your queries.

## Make

5. Create your own SQL queries using the learned concepts:
   - Write a query to select track names that start with 'S' and end with 'e'.
   - Select albums released after 2010, displaying the album name and a calculation of how many years ago they were released.
   - Write a query to display artist names with their name lengths, only for artists whose names are longer than 5 characters.

## Save your work
After finishing this worksheet, rename your `main.sql` file to `advanced selects.sql` to save your work to refer to at a later date

Now create a new file called `main.sql` and move onto worksheet 4!