
# PRIMM Worksheet: Joining Tables

## Predict

1. What do you think the following SQL statements will do? Write your predictions.

 ```SQL
 SELECT * 
 FROM Tracks 
 WHERE album_id IN (
   SELECT album_id 
   FROM Albums 
   WHERE release_year > 2018
  );
 ```

  ```SQL
   SELECT T.track_name, A.album_name 
   FROM Tracks T, Albums A
   WHERE T.album_id = A.album_id
     AND A.release_year > 2020;
  ```

   ```SQL
 SELECT T.track_name, A.album_name 
 FROM Tracks T 
 JOIN Albums A ON T.album_id = A.album_id 
 WHERE A.release_year > 2020;
   ```

   ```SQL
   SELECT A.artist_name, COUNT(T.track_id) 
   FROM Artists A 
   JOIN Tracks T ON A.artist_id = T.artist_id 
   GROUP BY A.artist_name;
   ```

## Run

2. Execute the SQL statements in your SQL environment and observe the results.

## Investigate

3. Analyse the output of each SQL statement:
   - How does using a subquery in the `WHERE` clause affect the results in the first query?
   - What does the third query reveal about the relationship between tracks and genres?
   - Discuss the results of the the JOIN between `Tracks` and `Albums`. How does it differ from selecting from one table?
   - In the last query, how does joining `Artists` and `Tracks` and grouping by `artist_name` help in understanding the data?

## Modify

4. Modify the SQL statements and try different queries:
   - Use a different condition in the subquery of the first SQL statement.
   - Experiment with different aggregate functions in the equi join queries.

## Make
5. Create your own SQL queries using the learned concepts:
   - Write a query to find all track names for Lizzo by using an equi join between `Tracks` and `Artists`.
   - Select track names and their respective genres by using an equi join between `Tracks` and `Genres`.
   - Count the number of tracks in each genre for 2017 by using an equi join among `Tracks`, `Albums`, and `Genres`.

## Save your work

After finishing this worksheet, rename your `main.sql` file to `joining.sql` to save your work to refer to at a later date

Now create a new file called `main.sql` and move onto the extension problems!